# Introduction

HOWDOO PLATFORM

Blockchain and distributed ledger technologies define protocols that allow large, ad-hoc, groups of users to transfer value between themselves without needing to trust each other or any central authority. Using public-key cryptography, users can sign transactions that transfer ownership of funds to other users. To prevent transactions from conflicting with each other, for example when one user attempts to transfer the same funds to multiple different users at the same time, a consistent sequence of blocks of transactions is committed using a proof of work scheme. Each existing Blockchain has its own features and transaction capabilities. 
Howdoo's vision is to be a functional product without loops and recursions, designed to be based on crypto-currencies and blockchain. It aims to improve upon existing blockchain applications, such as Bitcoin Script and Ethereum's EVM, while avoiding some of the problems they face. 

Infrastructure Roadmap
Our Howdoo token is based on the ERC20 smart contract. We recognize the advantages of ERC20 and ease to promote it into the market, along with the widespread adoption of the underlying ethereum network which supports our token. Thus, ethereum is the first step towards deployment of our token and execution of the Howdoo journey. The key benefit we get here is that any application or other smart contract can interact with a token in a standard manner without the need of knowing other details about the token.
Therefore, we have a very pleasant way to create any ICO token and have a standard way to interact with all of them like they are all the same. Thus, we have avoided custom development and integrations to add new tokens. We can deploy the solution, knowing the Ethereum Token address that implements the standard. Though, the initial deployment will comprise of an ERC20 smart contract that supports our utility token, Howdoo's core platform requires additional capability in regards to speed, security and traceability, at a significantly higher transaction rate and at a cheaper cost, which cannot be achieved with ethereum. Thus, the platform will be leveraging features of Stellar, to execute and settle transaction data. 
Stellar actually consists of two entirely different code bases at this point. It started out as a fork of the ripple code base. That software, called stellard, is still running in production. However, about half a year after launching, Stellar subsequently released a completely unrelated payment system called stellar-core. Now, there is almost no shared code between stellard and Stellar Core (though there there may be some shared semantics). The Stellar Consensus Mechanism is biased towards safety and correctness at the expensive of liveness. As opposed to the use of probabilistic voting utiulized by its predecessor, a very different mechanism that relies on majority validation and may lead to temporary ledger forks. 
Stellar core is based on a new consensus algorithm (called SCP), and an entirely new code base. Because it is a clean slate design, there is no backwards compatibility and any transition will presumably take the form of either a flag day or trading old stellars for new stellars while both networks run for a period.
This new consensus algorithm, SCP, which was released with a proof of safety and boasts being "optimally safe" for a given configuration and failure pattern proves highly stable for the use of our social platform and future development which would support AI and payment gateways. SCP allows a lot of flexibility in terms of how nodes configure their quorums, and is explicitly designed to accommodate Byzantine failures (where bad nodes lie) and different nodes trusting different subsets of the system. By contrast, ethereum (or most other blockchains) use a fixed threshold (51-80%), and their analysis does not apply to cases in which different nodes have different sets of nodes to trust. 
There are numerous other advantages between Stellar and Ethereum, at both the implementation and protocol level. 
Commercially, Stellar is a much viable option given its inflationary nature, with 1% new coins being created every year and all fees being recycled. Stellar uses the Ed25519 signature scheme (basically Schnorr) and 32-byte public keys as addresses adding to the security and traceability features. 
Thus, our protocol will leverage Ethereum to submit a utility token serving as an entry credit to the Howdoo Platform, which would then utilize Stellar for executing transactions. Having said that, at Howdoo, we also understand the transient nature of the blockchain space and acknowledge the rapid pace of emerging technologies within the blockchain realm. To keep our project updated, we plan to develop a flexible platform to operate on multiple blockchains. By leveraging multiple blockchains we envision developing a truly robust platform to support the Howdoo messaging application. Howdoo will leverage security and immutability of blockchain to ensure transparency and validation are integral to the platform. Generally, hashing data onto a single blockchain is enough. However, to provide better reliability, instead of relying on a single blockchain, the software can leverage multiple blockchain platforms. In future, if more advanced blockchain platforms are developed, the system will be customizable to incorporate the new technology.
Another key component we plan to research for our platform is the utility of IPFS system since its file based system utilizes paths rather than URLs, which can enhance the security of our platform, especially against brute force. URLs can be understood as an ugliness that represents a failure to unify access on your local machine and on remote machines. IPFS is avoiding this ugliness by treating local and remote files the same and the method to address files is a standard path. It might help to imagine mounting the entire IPFS under /ipfs and then accessing the files like they are just that: Files in your file system. Thus, Howdoo's files will then be accessed via /howdoo command.
